The Project Gutenberg eBook of Day Dreams, by Rudolph Valentino

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Day Dreams

Author: Rudolph Valentino

Release Date: December 26, 2021 [eBook #67016]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Charlene Taylor, Chuck Greif and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
             produced from images generously made available by The Internet
             Archive/American Libraries.)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DAY DREAMS ***




                              DAY DREAMS

                  [Illustration: _Rudolph Valentino_]




                              DAY DREAMS

                           RUDOLPH VALENTINO

                            [Illustration]

                                (TO M.)

    _The serenade of a thousand years ago_
    _The song of a hushed lip_
    _Lives forever in the glass of today_
    _Wherein we see the reflection of it_
    _If we but brush away_
    _The cobwebs of a doubting faith._

                            _Published by_
                     MACFADDEN PUBLICATIONS, INC.
                               NEW YORK

                                 1923


                            COPYRIGHT, 1923
                                  BY
                           RUDOLPH VALENTINO

                                Printed
                              in U. S. A.


                            To J. C. N. G.
                       MY FRIENDS HERE AND THERE




INTRODUCTION


    I can not tell a rondelay
      In words of yesterday
    I can not tell a couplet
      For words come as they may.
    I’ll do my best--I’ll try a bit
      Of ultra-modern rhyme
    And cast aside the shackles
      Binding “Once upon a time.”




PREFACE


To you, my gentle reader, I wish to say a foreword of warning before you
peruse the contents of this book. I am not a poet nor a scholar,
therefore you shall find neither poems nor prose. Just dreams--_Day
Dreams_--a bit of romance, a bit of sentimentalism, a bit of philosophy,
not studied, but acquired by constant observation of that greatest of
masters!... _Nature!_

While lying idle, not through choice, but because forcibly kept from my
preferred and actual field of activity, I took to dreams to forget the
tediousness of worldly strife and the boredom of jurisprudence’s
pedantic etiquette.

Happy indeed I shall be if my _Day Dreams_ will bring you as much
enjoyment in the reading as they brought to me in the writing.

                                                    _Rudolph Valentino_

_New York--May 29th, 1923._




CONTENTS


                                                                    PAGE

THE GIFT BOOK                                                          1

NATURE                                                                 3

THE LOVE CHILD                                                         5

HEART FLOWER                                                           9

YOU                                                                   11

DAY DREAMS                                                            15

SUSPICION                                                             17

THE SAGE                                                              19

MORPHIA                                                               21

DOMINO                                                                23

THE SPHINX                                                            25

STRADIVARIUS                                                          27

EXTRAVAGANZA                                                          29

MIRAGE                                                                31

GLORIFICATION                                                         33

REMEMBRANCE                                                           35

THREE GENERATIONS OF KISSES                                           37

A BABY’S SKIN                                                         39

GRATITUDE                                                             41

SHADOWS                                                               43

ACCUSATION                                                            45

EVEN SONG                                                             47

GYPSIES                                                               49

THE CARRIER                                                           53

THE SCHOOL OF LIFE                                                    55

THE WANTON                                                            57

SLAVERY                                                               59

WITHIN A WALL                                                         61

THE CHALICE                                                           63

SOLICITUDE                                                            65

YOU                                                                   67

AT SUNRISE TOMORROW                                                   69

POVERTY                                                               71

CREMATION                                                             73

THE LUTE                                                              77

POWERLESS                                                             79

CAP AND BELLS                                                         83

PATCHWORK QUILT                                                       85

TO A. M.                                                              87

THE PHILOSOPHY OF A PESSIMIST                                         89

GEMS OF THOUGHT                                                       91

TO C. F.                                                              93

SYMPATHY                                                              95

LABOR                                                                 99

WEALTH                                                               101

UNDERSTANDING                                                        103

HUNGER                                                               105

MONEY                                                                107

THE CHOICE                                                           109

ITALY                                                                111

ERIN                                                                 113

BEES                                                                 115

TO M. T.                                                             117

IMPERIALISM                                                          119

RADIO                                                                121

THE KALEIDOSCOPE OF LOVE                                             123

MEMORIAL                                                             125

DUST TO DUST                                                         127

LULLABY TREE                                                         129

ADAGE                                                                131

FAITHFULNESS                                                         133

REFLECTIONS AT RANDOM                                                135

COOPERATION                                                          143




DAY DREAMS




THE GIFT BOOK

(To J. R.)


    A book is a kindly gracious thing.
    Each has a particular gift to bring.

      It may be the wealth
        Of a wonderful life,
      Or the thrilling adventure
        Of Jungle strife.
      Perhaps it’s a present
        Of orient gold,
      Tales of Aladdin
        Enchantingly told.
      Maybe a view
        Of olden days,
      Knighthood--Romance,
         Flowery ways.
      And again a journey
        To lands afar,
      Where strange things happen,
        And wonders are.

      All of them--Gift books
        But plainly I see,
      Not one of them holds
        The gift for me.
      I want a book
        That will lazily roam
      Down the dear Pathway
        To Folks back home.




NATURE


    Nature is the open book
    Wherein the truths of the world are found
    Nature is an endless story
    Of never changing glory
    When you study nature your teacher is God
    So always let your reference be
    This Greatest of Masters.




THE LOVE CHILD

(To B.)


    Don Juan roamed the summer sky
    A shady cloud of gray
    But this dull attire
    Hid a heart of fire
    In quest of romance stray.


Vision

    A lovely golden sunbeam
    Shining from above
    Came radiant by
    And caught the eye
    Of this vagabond of love.


Delusion

    In wild tempestuous wooing
    He kissed her heart away
    All in a jest
    It was the quest
    Of the cloud on a summer’s day.


Conclusion

    Through tears the sunbeam glimmered
    Then happily she smiled
    The tempest passed
    Alone at last
    With a little rainbow child.




    Dawn runs in a crimson streak
      Across a leaden sky--
    Just like a pulsing vein of life
    An artery of love not strife
    And it livens the heavens high.

    So in our sky today it seems,
      No sign of life we see.
    Do we not know,
    Night’s bound to go,
    Dawn follows instantly.




    If it were not for the showers, where
    would the rainbows be?




HEART FLOWER


    O lovely rose
        Within whose chalice lies
        The heart of my true love,
    Did not the gods in benediction stoop
        To bless thee from above?
        And place within thy roseate lips
        The rubies counterpart.
        I found it there
        A jewel rare
    The flower of thy heart.




YOU


Your Eyes

    Your Eyes,
      Mystic pools
        Of beauteous light.
      Golden brown
        In color
          Deep,
            Yet, amber clear.
      Unshadowed
        By a frown,
      Fathomless,
        Wherein
          My senses
            Drown.
    Your Eyes.


Your Lips

    Your Lips,
      Twin silken petals
        Of a dewy rose.
      Altar
        Of the heart
      Where love
        Kindling desire
          Worships unafraid.
      Crucible
        Of
          Passion.
      The rose in masquerade.
    Your Lips.


Your Kiss

    Your Kiss,
      A flame
        Of Passion’s fire
      The sensitive Seal
        Of Love
      In the desire,
        The fragrance
          Of your Caress;
      Alas,
        At times
          I find
            Exquisite bitterness
      In
    Your Kiss.




DAY DREAMS

(To The Friend)


    _Yesterday_--in contemplation
        We dreamed of love to be,
        And in the dreaming,
        Wove a tapestry of Love.

    _Today_--We dream our dream awake;
        Realization,
          Coloring our Romance
        With all the glory
          Of a flaming Rose.

    _Tomorrow_--What awakening lies before us:
        Our tapestry
          In shreds perchance,
        Or mellowed--glorified
          By love’s reflection?
    I wonder--




SUSPICION


    There crossed the path
        Of my dream of you
    A gossamer web of gray,
        So soft its sheen,
        Almost unseen,
    But it stopped me
        On my way.

    Like a cold, gray granite battlement
        It walled me all about,
    For a cruel steel,
        Was in the feel
    Of the silken web of doubt.




THE SAGE

(To M.)


    O Gladness shining bravely
        From out the eyes of youth,
    Be strong in your belief of good,
        Of valor and of truth.
    For soon enough,
    Too soon enough--
    The gladdest light meets doubt,
    Then flickers, flutters, just a bit,
        But, doesn’t quite go out.

    O Sadness peering divinely
        From out the eyes of age,
    Be strong in your belief of good.
        To youth--still be the sage.
    For soon enough,
    Too soon enough,
    The saddest light in doubt,
    Flickers, flutters, flickers,
        And finally goes out.




MORPHIA


    I am The Ingrate Morphia,
    You hold the brimming cup of your Life
    To me, athirst am I,
    And drink my fill
    Of strength, until
    The cup is drained dry.

    Then, satisfied, I care no more.
    The cup, I cast away,
    Crunch ’neath my heel.
    Its doom I seal,
    As I walk on my way.




DOMINO


    Passion’s cloak,
    An ashy thing to wear,
    Covering the shroud of love
    That once was fair.

    What gruesome imagery
    Does this convey to me.
    Grim death--itself no ghastlier a thing than this
    Could ever be.




THE SPHINX

(To B. H.)


    O Sphinx--a monument to man!
      Built by his hands of clay,
    You symbolize the power of might
      Used in an earthy way.
    Yesteryear, you stood for man’s symbolic strength sublime,
      Today, you all but buried are
    Beneath the sands of time.

    O Wondrous mountain--living Sphinx!
      Built by the hand of God,
    You symbolize the power of Love
      Used with the lowly sod.
    Yesteryear, a symbol of divinity sublime,
      Today, you lift your rugged head
    Untouched by hands of time.

    O Sphinx--a monument to man!
      Built by his hand of clay,
    You symbolize the power of might
      Used in an earthy way.
    Yesterday, you in grandeur stood alone.
      Today, you’re mingling with the sand
    A rotting mass of stone.

    O Wondrous mountain--living Sphinx!
      Built by the hand of God,
    You symbolize the power of Love
      Used with the lowly sod,
    E’er yesterday, you stood a monument of Love,
      Today unchanged, your glorious face,
        In worship turned above.




STRADIVARIUS

(To Jascha Heifetz)


    If power were only given me,
    To paint the tone picture that arises from the soul
    Of that sanctuary of sound--your violin,
    Where would I find pigment worthy of such a use,
    Save in the fleeting splendour of some sky.
    Where a brush--save in a snowy feather
    From the shining wing of an archangel.
    Where the canvas--save across the dream memory of one who heard
    And was blessed by the hearing.




EXTRAVAGANZA


Extravaganza! The very word is vulgar. Still vulgarity is necessary to
development, for even a weed growing in a swamp can sometimes be
cultivated into a hot house plant. Take an orchid not under its own
surroundings, but dress it by putting it in a proper receptacle, and
what a difference! But, outside of beauty what have you? If we could
only combine the beauty of an orchid with the soul of a weed we would
get an improvement in the orchid, for real weeds are grateful enough to
spring up between cobblestones, even to be trampled upon.

Rather be a blade of grass that knows the heart beats of Mother Earth,
than the potted plant which is pampered and only restored to a semblance
of life.




MIRAGE


    Happiness--you wait for us
      Just beyond,
            Just beyond.

    We know not where,
          Nor how we shall find you.
    We only know you are
        Waiting, waiting,
            Just beyond.




GLORIFICATION

(To W. W.)


    The arms of the earth broke through the sod
    And clenched his fist in derision,
    For clay knows not the might of God,
    It has but earthy vision.

    The finger of God wrote in the sky
    A sign of mighty fire:
    “Reach up to me for I am Life”
    But earth could reach no higher.

    With strength of muscle, with might and main,
    Earth struggled and then defied,
    But God stretched forth His hand of Love
    And Earth was glorified.




REMEMBRANCE

(To M. O.)


    An infant memory,
        A tiny fragile thing,
    Called into being
        By the brush of a colored wing
    Across the canvas
        Of my tired mind.
    It grows,
        A lovely picture of the past
                              I find,
    You! Grown to fullest stature
        Of the perfect soul,
    The tiny sheltered memory
        Has reached at last
                            Its goal.




THREE GENERATIONS OF KISSES

(To M. K.)


    A Mother’s kisses
    Are blessed with love
    Straight from the heart
    Of Heaven above.
    Love’s Benediction,
    Her dear caress,
    The sum of all our happiness.

    Till we kiss the lips
    Of the mate of our soul
    We never know Love
    Has reached its goal.
    Caress divine,
    You reign until
    A baby’s kiss seems sweeter still.

    That beloved blossom
    A baby’s face
    Seems to be
    Love’s resting place.
    And a million kisses
    Tenderly
    Linger there in ecstacy.

    Were I told to select
    Just one kiss a day;
    Oh! What a puzzle
    I would say.
    Still a baby’s kiss
    I’d choose, you see,
    For in that wise choice
    I’d gain ALL Three.




A BABY’S SKIN


    Texture of a butterfly’s wing,
    Colored like a dawned rose,
    Whose perfume is the breath of God.
    Such is the web wherein is held
    The treasure of the treasure chest
    The priceless gift--the Child of Love.




GRATITUDE

(To A. T.)


    The oleander blooms for me,
    In dawning splendrous beauty,
    I planted it so tenderly,
    And love has done its duty.

    All in a garden of the earth,
    All in a plot of ground,
    Wherein I found no bit of worth,
    The seed I planted in the ground.

    O Tiny seed almost unworthy
    To be cherished for thy looks,
    But deep within the heart of you
    Was wisdom never found in books.

    You are the spirit of the good,
    The joy, the beauty of all things,
    You are the melody of life--the song
    That Mother Nature sings.

    And so to that sweet lullaby
    You, in your perfumed cradle, rest
    Safe in the arms of Mother Earth,
    Held closely to her loving breast.

    Until one happy wondrous day
    When love so tenderly drew nigh,
    Lifted your tiny hand of green
    And turned your face toward the sky.

    The oleander blooms for me,
    In dawning splendrous beauty,
    I planted it so tenderly
    And love has done its duty.




SHADOWS


    Shadows--gray symbol of a broken faith.
    We cling to hope--in hope we find
    The symbol of a broken heart.
    Shadows--gray bleak gossamer web
    Of what once was woven ’round my heart.
    We slink within thy domain--the land of shadows.
    For still we hope.
    But knowing always, that a broken faith can never be restored
    To more than it was--a Shadow.




ACCUSATION


    Out of a shadowed corner
    Comes a phantom of the past,
          To confuse me
          And accuse me
    For a vain iconoclast.
          To chide me
          And deride me
    In a seething scornful blast.
          To cheat me
          And defeat me,
    Conscience, crucifies at last.




EVEN SONG


    I sing a song to the sapphire sky
    That curtains a sleeping earth.
    I sing a song to the stars on high
    That mark a jewel’s worth.

    My feeble voice, so weak it sounds,
    A puny earthy cry,
    Yet when its echo comes to me,
    Angelic voice in harmony,
    I know it is not I.

    It was belief that gave it wing,
    That weakling voice of mine,
    And carried it where angels sing
    God’s Melody Divine.




GYPSIES

(To R. B.)


    Little gypsies of the city,
    Little sparrows--more’s the pity,
    Homeless, heedless of the weather,
    Happy, banding all together,
    Never giving thought to trouble,
    Never seeing evil double,
    Would that we who proudly mention
    Every honorable intention
    To the world with trumpet blaring,
    Could, like sparrows, take uncaring
    All the little earthly struggles,
    Cast them gypsy-like aside
    And fly happily, and gladly
    All about earth’s countryside.


Why do the birds chant the psalm of glory?

Only because they alone are free throated and unafraid. Do they realize
the danger in the sling-shot of civilization? No--they are only
conscious of the Joy within.




    Why sing of Joy--
        If Joy is to be unheard.
    Why sing of Faith,
        If Faith is to be barred.
    For all that is good
        Is forever alive,
    And all that is bad
        Is dead before it be born.




THE CARRIER

(To J. K.)


    A poor little messenger clad in gray,
    Sent as a go-between--they say.
    Took a betrayal under its wing
    And guarded and cherished the slimy thing.

    We speak of Glory, and Trust, and Men,
    But that is all forgotten when
    We send this softly feathered bird
    With messages best left unheard.

    Oh! What a mockery ’cross the sky
    The dove is sent to act as spy.




THE SCHOOL OF LIFE

(To M)


Lives are classes--we are pupils with excellent teachers. Experience
should tutor us, but we so often shirk school. School can be made happy
and we delight in making a higher grade--but through not heeding
Experience’s teaching we often are left back in the old class, and
sometimes, sad to relate, are put several grades lower.

But, happily, there is always the opportunity of skipping many grades
upward. It’s a poor rule that doesn’t work both ways.

The Mind is the Grade we work in. We can have majestic thoughts, living
in a hermit’s hut, or we can think as a swine in a palace on a throne of
gold--let us choose our station--kingly children, or swineherds.
Eternity is the Empire.




THE WANTON


    To love, save that which mockery was,
    No heart, save that of stone.
    A multitude forever hers,
    Alas--not one--alone!

    Cradled in the arms of many,
    Not where to lay her weary head.
    Fortune smiled--held out her hand
    And struck the wanton dead.




SLAVERY

(To E. A. P.)


                        Love
              I am a slave,
    Yet free as birds above,
              Sold into bondage
    By the tender kiss of love.

                        Lust
              I am a slave
    In the rat trap of disgust,
              Sold into bondage
    By the lurid kiss of lust.

                        Hate
              I am a slave
    Prisoned by the walls of fate,
              Sold into bondage
    By the cruel kiss of hate.

                        Crime
              I am a slave
    Behind the bars of time,
              Sold into bondage
    By the leprous kiss of crime.

                        Death
              I am a slave
    No longer in my breath,
              Given sight of freedom
    Through the graciousness of death.

              Still am I a slave
    In the hand of destiny,
              Thought alone enslaved me
    And thought alone can free.




WITHIN A WALL


    Once in a time when skies were gray
    I chanced to walk in a cloistered way,
    I saw the ones who closed the door
    On all the world had spread before.
    Their eyes--that were closed to the joy of good,
    They thought the God’s law they understood.
    O Pity, Pity, for such as they
    Who only look on skies of gray,
    From cloistered windows sad of eye,
    When all about is glorious sky.
    It was but the tiny patch of gray,
    The shadowed thing that happened to play
    Behind the back of the glorious earth.
    Alas, they thought it was all the worth
    Of the whole wide world, the glorious world.
    But the folded wings were not unfurled
    And closed to use they lost the call,
    And so they lost to them their all.




THE CHALICE

(To E. H.)


    The chalice of a lily cup
    Is indeed the sacrament
    That Mother Nature uses
    When she communes with God.




SOLICITUDE


    On the sands of a happy shore,
    Walked two lovers, hand in hand,
    Leaving all that’s gone before.
    They mark each footstep in the sand,
    Knowing well that every foot print
    Will be trod by their own blood,
    Therefore, let each couple ponder
    O’er their footsteps
    For future good.


(To D. K.)

    Man is the word of the story,
    Woman is the inspiration,
    God is the book that binds,
    None other can be what is now the finished book.




YOU


    You are the History of Love and its Justification.
    The Symbol of Devotion.
    The Blessedness of Womanhood.
    The Incentive of Chivalry.
    The Reality of Ideals.
    The Verity of Joy.
    Idolatry’s Defense.
    The Proof of Goodness.
    The Power of Gentleness.
    Beauty’s Acknowledgment.
    Vanity’s Excuse.
    The Promise of Truth.
    The Melody of Life.
    The Caress of Romance.
    The Dream of Desire.
    The Sympathy of Understanding.
    My Heart’s Home.
    The Proof of Faith.
    Sanctuary of my Soul.
    My Belief of Heaven.
    Eternity of all Happiness.
              My Prayers.
                  You.




AT SUNRISE TOMORROW

(To E. B.)


    O Love, when you leave me do not say:
    “Tomorrow we meet at twilight”
    For that is the time of the darkening hour,
    The ending of the day.
    All is glowing, gleaming in our love,
    All is pulsing, breathing in the light
    Of understanding--it is not symbolic of twilight,
    Nor yet of dawning, for it has reached the zenith of love’s day.
    So when you leave me, dearest, do not say:
    “Tomorrow we meet at twilight.”
    Rather, beloved of my heart,
    “We meet at sunshine tomorrow.”




POVERTY


    Possessing the jewels of the earth,
    Holding within my grasp the sceptre of the universe,
    All these would but make me more the pauper--
    Were I beggared of your love.




CREMATION

(To G. S.)


I

    Just a packet of letters tied with a bit of blue,
    Just a packet of letters that once were sent by you
    To one who proved unworthy
    Of the Love inscribed within.
    The tiny packet of letters, a witness of my sin.


II

    Just a packet of letters, but they are not mine own.
    I dare not claim one thought in them
    Not even as a loan,
    For to the one you thought I was
    In all sincerity
    You bared the secrets of your soul.
    Now I send them back to thee.


III

    Just a packet of letters
    A monument of love.
    You lie within the fireplace,
    In smoke you’ll rise above
    The sordidness of all deceit,
    The grime of earthly thought,
    Yet, in this flash of living fire,
    The flame of love is caught.


IV

    Just a packet of letters a while ago you were,
    Now in vaprous symphony of gray
    I send you back to her,
    For the spirit of true love that’s penned,
    Must rise to meet her soul
    In pearly glory ’round her head.
    Love’s halo--is its goal.

       *       *       *       *       *

To rake over the dead ashes of a burnt out love one must use the pen
point of poetry.




THE LUTE


    The lute, a barrier to song of soul.
        For none save God
        Can music charm
    From out a thing man-made.
        A bowl of wood,
        A string or two to arm
    The troubadour with weapon strong.




POWERLESS


    When I see a look of sadness,
        In the eyes of You,
    Thoughts of grief akin to madness
        Surge my being through.

    Am I then so weak and helpless,
        That I can not send
    Even shadowings of sorrows
        To their deserved end.





    Garden of delight wherein the jewels of earth do lie!
    Tell me, in your vault of gold, will the flowers ever die?
    Nothing of so fair a mien could return to earthly dust.
    Even if the earth do say, “It is finished,” trust we must
    In the God who tells of light that will lift to Heaven above
    Every perfumed flower that blows symphonies on wings of love.




CAP AND BELLS

(To F.)


    In Life’s masquerade the disguises are many:
    Here’s a man masquerading as Wealth,
    Wears a million of gold,
    But a pauper, I’m told,
    He hasn’t a penny of health.

    Here comes a Beggar, in tatters and rags,
    Masking as Poverty old.
    He may look the part,
    But the wealth in his heart,
    Makes him richer than Croesus in gold.

    The costumes are varied disguises beguiling
    That cover the true man beneath
    One wears learned looks,
    That he’s borrowed from books
    And a co-operative laurel wreath.

    And still another pretending a clown,
    In make-up the silliest Fool,
    But his knowledge of men,
    Is beyond the ken
    Of a sage of the orthodox school.

    There are millions of others in Life’s Motley Masque
    Who follow the art of mime.
    They mimic and play
    At mockery today,
    But they never fool Old Father Time.




PATCHWORK QUILT


    A Patchwork Quilt,
    Industrious name.
    Once it was not quite the same.
    A different fame,
    A “Crazy Quilt,”
    Same foolish dame
    Entitled you.
    It was sorry fame.
    Life is like that,
    We do not see
    How little bits
    Make harmony--
    It’s up to man to take each bit
    Of happiness and make it fit.
    But if he takes and doesn’t dwell
    Upon the pattern--Well, it’s Hell!
    A crazy quilt the name’s O. K.
    But start a patchwork quilt today.




(To A. M.)


The sky is the mirror that reflects all phases of Life. The clouds of
Doubt bring showers, but there is always the “Silver Lining” promise.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Moral_: If the sky is the limit better fix it clear in your mind to
begin with.




THE PHILOSOPHY OF A PESSIMIST


    I do not care for money made easily,
    It is not lasting--I know.
    I do not care for friends made easily,
    They are not lasting--I know.
    I do not care for anything that comes easily,
    It never lasts--I know.
    But I fell in love with you easily,
    But, not lastingly--I know.




GEMS OF THOUGHT


    Diamonds--Scintillating wit of sharpest ray

    Emeralds--Philosophy, growth in words today

    Pearls--Are the hymns of pity

    Sapphires--Songs of the skies

    Rubies--Are poems of passion
            And love that never dies.




(To C. F.)


The curtain is raised on the first act--the overture is over. We can
play our parts. They say life’s a stage, but what a sad thing we have so
few good stage managers. Our productions have more in the way of Costume
and lack, so often, the right lines. Lines do count, not always words,
but sympathy of thought is quite as necessary.




SYMPATHY

(To J.)


Sympathy is just as essential to the world as any other great attribute
of good, but it must be sympathy in the right place.

Sympathy of thought has been the greatest lever in the machinery of
mankind, but to sympathize with a weak nature sometimes breaks up his
foundation. Know your subject.

Never withhold sympathy in loving one, but rather than sympathy, use
encouragement as a tonic to tone up a weakling.

Kindly sympathetic interest is only another name for encouragement.

Never take away a prop without putting a stronger one in its place.




On a stretch of sandy beach I see naught of human presence, but upon
looking closer, a remembrance of the past. I sit upon a rock and
meditate upon what once was. I see myself in all the splendor of my
youth. I see my boon companion--Hope, and one other one, whose name I’d
best forget. We walked--Hope and I--but ever the unnamed one stalked by
my side. I turned to gaze in fascination at my companion who speaks not,
but forever stalks silently beside me. I finally forget my Hope to gaze
in interest at the other. Hope, neglected, lags behind until we walk
alone--myself and the unnamed one. We walk forever, but the walk brings
us to the abyss of the world. What name has that one whose identity I
fail to know? O, Eternity, thou art my sight and knowledge. It was
Doubt, whose companion I became.




LABOR


    On whose shoulders are the crosses held,
    None can liken a laborer to him who bears the heavy-hearted thoughts.
    What can I say--it is more laborious than many tasks,
    Yet--’tis not task--
    For task is given to be done
    And ye are the cross bearers if ye will.




WEALTH

(To B. F. S.)


    Treasures in the lowly casket that we call a brain,
    Can jewels of the earth compare
    With all that man finds hidden there?

    The wealth of knowledge, that will lead a willing soul
    Into a land of untold wonder,
    Where will be the lasting goal
    Of every seeking thought--




UNDERSTANDING

(To the Brother of Maris)


    Maris of the golden eyes,
      You in all innocence
    Looked upon a lovely world
      In wondering shyness.
    Beauty beckoned,
      Then turned the corner of another day
    Leaving in her stead
      An unknown one,
    The stranger to light.

    Maris of the saddened eyes,
      In your pity,
    Looking from another world
      Have compassion on beauty
    Who thoughtlessly turned away,
      Leaving another in her place
    The stranger to light.




HUNGER


    I have journeyed toward the city
    On the long, long road of Life,
    I have learned how little Pity
    Plays a speaking part in life.

    I have learned that only Money
    Is the voice that’s heard today,
    Calling for God’s milk and honey,
    Even Hunger has no say.

    I have reached the city’s center
    By the crooked road of Hell,
    For Starvation’s been my mentor
    And has taught her lesson well.




MONEY


 Money--you Harlequin of the great masquerade of life.
 You wear the dollar sign as your mask.
 It may hide you--yes, for a time,
 But when at last grim reality stalks into the midst of the festivities,
 The mask is ruthlessly torn away, and then--is seen
 The true expression hidden behind it--the cruel visage of discordant greed.




THE CHOICE


    Words are jewels rare--
                  If need be
    Words are sometimes fair
                  You heed me,
    But our choosing makes them seem
    The reflection of a dream.

    Let us, therefore,
                  Choose in reason,
    Whereby all that good is ours,
    And by knowing rightful season
    Pass forever--happy hours.




ITALY

(To Caruso)


    The earth is earth--that is its worth,
    To men who walk below.
    But to the soul that seeks its goal,
    Each land is all they know.
    One calls it Home, another Heart, another Property,
    But to the one who loves the sun
    He calls it Italy.




ERIN


    The green sod is red now--
        Rebellion
    The green sod is white now--
        Purity
    The green sod is blue now,
        With truth
    And the green sod is ever green,
        It is growth--none can stop natural growth
    Erin--land of dreams--Awaken.




BEES


    The air is alive with buzzing bees
    The little workers of destinies.
    We grasp and strive to make our way,
    Each life a hive and so our day
    Is fraught with honey sweet, if we
    Know all is good in destiny.




(To M. T.)


A certain lad had a long way to go, so he sat still and waited
until--well, another lad also had a long way to go--so he hurried along
and before long he received several gifts not to be sneezed at. No, they
were not to be sneezed at, though I must say they made his eyes water a
bit. The gifts were lovely little blisters on his pedal extremities, so
he had to sit down and take care of his poor feet and in pain tarried,
looking at his poor feet. Ah, yes, our other little lad took it very
slowly, almost like the proverbial snail, but kept on the lookout and
pretty soon a nice, comfortable wagon came along, and took the slow
little boy for a nice ride, and the good little slow boy rode merrily by
the poor little fast boy, who still sat nursing his blisters. He had
really gone stepping on some little brimstones,--though he said they
were pebbles. The good little slow boy turned back and put his hand to
the poor little fast boy, but I regret to say he raised his digits to
his nose--O, world where is thy sting.

       *       *       *       *       *

Note--This is not a moral, it is only something that happens every day
on our best trafficked roads.




IMPERIALISM


    Oh, Mirror--most ungrateful ruler
      Man has ever had.
    We trembling bow to your decree,
      But oh! ’Tis very sad
    For all our great devotion
      And concern in your behalf,
    No matter how we worship you,
      You just give us the laugh.

    Though we may claim democracy,
      You hold us like a slave.
    The tyrant ruler of the world,
      From cradle to the grave.
    Pa Adam’s prize Apollos
      Look to you (It is to laugh)
    Their reward for faithful service,
      Is Methuselah’s Epitaph.




RADIO

(To H. M.)


    Radio of romance,
                  You
    Broadcasting to the universe
          All that is most blessed
                  In all things,
    But to me alone
          The melody of your Love
        Flows through
                  The artery
          Of time and Space,
    For unity,
          Can never know Division.




THE KALEIDOSCOPE OF LOVE

Synonyms and Antonyms


    A--Adoration--Anticipation--Affinity--Arguments.
    B--Beauty--Bliss--Bitterness--Bondage.
    C--Caresses--Circumstances--Confidences--Charm.
    D--Desire--Delusion--Dreams--Divorce.
    E--Ecstacy--Engagement--Ego--End.
    F--Fascination--Forgetfulness--Flattery--Faith.
    G--Gossip--Gratitude--Gift--Goodbye.
    H--Happiness--Honor--Heartache--Hell.
    I--Intuition--Irony--Idolatry--Integrity.
    J--Jealousy--Joy--Justice--June.
    K--Kisses--Keepsakes--Knowledge--Kismet.
    L--Lips--Loneliness--Logic--Longing.
    M--Marriage--Morality--Money--Man.
    N--No--Nearest--Novelty--Never.
    O--Opposition--Own--Offering--Opulence.
    P--Passion--Promise--Pride--Proposal.
    Q--Quality--Quest--Queries--Quarrels.
    R--Romance--Reveries--Realization--Remembrance.
    S--Sympathy--Sacrifice--Shame--Settlement.
    T--Thoughts--Truth--Temper--Tears.
    U--Unkindness--Understanding--Uncertainty--Unfaithfulness.
    V--Virtue--Vanity--Vows--Vengeance.
    W--Wisdom--Wishes--Wedlock--Woman.
    X--The Unknown--Love.
    Y--Youth--Yearning--Yes--Yawn.
    Z--Zenith--Zest--Zeal--Zero.




MEMORIAL

(To A. S. R.)


    A Saint in a stained glass window,
    To the memory of one
    Who “lived the life,”
    In sin and strife,
    Is the epitome of fun.

    A bit of colored crockery,
    A picture wrought in glass,
    His memory’s mockery
    ’Tis best to let it pass.

    A Saint in a stained glass window,
    A blest memorial true,
    When it reflects the beauty of
    The memory of you.




DUST TO DUST


I take a bone--I gaze at it in wonder--You, O bit of strength that was.
In you today I see the whited sepulchre of nothingness--but you were the
shaft that held the wagon of Life. Your strength held together the
vehicle of Man until God called and the Soul answered.




LULLABY TREE


    Cradle a thought on a bough of a tree,
    Where it will swing so lazily,
    Where it will gather to its heart
    All in Nature’s lovely mart.
    For every lovely living thing
    Stops to talk by a tree and sing,
    Of what has gone on that very day
    In fields and forests far away.

    If little thoughts hear happily
    All that’s said about a tree,
    They’ll grow to be so wise and true,
    They’ll come back to the heart of you
    Much stronger, grown in beauty free,
    Because their cradle was a tree.




ADAGE


    Happy childhood knows no sting
    That the age of stealth doth bring.
    Stealing hours from the day
    Takes the joys of strength away.
    Stealing hours from the Night
    Taking all--for rest is Might.
    When we steal away a Trust,
    Nothing ever can we give
    Back to him and so we must
    Never Steal, but Give to Live.




FAITHFULNESS

(To Our Little Friend--The Dog)


A dog is the nearest approach to the sweet submissive spirit God would
have in us, Faithfulness in the highest form. He only is faithful
because he believes in you, as God would have us believe in Him.




REFLECTIONS AT RANDOM

(To A. T.)


    Sing a song to the moon
    Or sing a song to the sun
    But just as long as you sing a song
    Your day or night is well begun.

     Woman, the unreasonable Reason for the Great Reason, which the
     sages call Life--Others not so knowing call it Love.

     Faith--The Engagement--repartee of Love. Hope--Marriage--maybe its
     reply, but Charity--Divorce--is the retort courteous.

     The wedding march or two-step, I should say, is only too often the
     lock-step.

     Punishment is seldom unmerited, though we may not always see the
     cause.

     It is unwise to doubt others when you are not sure of yourself.

     Scientists are fools in some respects, I mean the so-called ones,
     for they ignore the science of all important things.

     Friend is symbolical of Heaven, but some play Hell with it.

     Fun is a healthy disease and is very contagious.

     “May I intrude” is often substituted for “Do I intrude"--bores are
     not connoisseurs in the selection of verbs.

     Make the best of what comes, for the best is coming.

     The Great Divide is the division of thought which separates the
     Wise from the Fools.

     Whatever has in it the element of restlessness is like the poison
     ivy plant; it causes rash and spasmodic movements, and after all
     the scratching the victim is worse off than before.

     Worlds, and Worlds to live in, and so few do.

     Care is helpful if we carefully care, but when we carelessly care,
     be careful.

     Gossip--never related in the same way.

     When you eat hash you do not always recognize the different kinds
     of meat in it, do you? So it is with Twice Told Tales.

     We always prefer the most difficult way. It seems so much more
     important, but once we realize it, truth is always simplest when it
     is Truth.

     It takes a hero to accuse no one, but take another’s accusation to
     his heart.

     Love’s greatest expression is Service.

     Eyes are living windows.

     Into the garden we all go, but most are looking for the worm in the
     bud and never see the promise of the flower.

    ART the very mockery of it
    In a painted mask we sometimes call a face,
    Alas, that pigment be so badly used
    And artistry brought to much sad disgrace.

    Take freedom but take care lest it take your liberty from you.

    To be a humorist one must be concise, witty, but short-lived,
       for the good die young.

    Cleverness--word most useful to the Bard
    Who finds his pathway all beset with doubt,
    For if we find his hidden meanings hard,
    We call him “clever"--then he knows what we’re about.

     Publicity is the keystone in the Arch of Triumph.

     Money--pretender to the throne of all we most desire.

     Doubt is the opposing influence of our lives.

     Happiness, some never know as a lasting friend, but only as a
     bowing acquaintance.

     Wifehood is a profession, but Womanhood is the Expression.

     Faith is the oasis in our Desert of Lost Hope.

     Given a chance to run in the Great Race, even a weakling can win if
     he wears the Armor of Courage.

     Purpose in doing is the cornerstone of success.

     Did anything ever build itself over night that was worthy the name
     Great Structure?

     Loving service is more helpful than scholarly advice.

     Friend--Most lovely word, akin to love, its dearest relation--might
     I say.

     We dream of Greatness in humility, only to awaken to the greatness
     of Humility.




CO-OPERATION


    O Just and Mighty Army of the World of Living Things
    March on into the open heart of Man,
    He needs a touch of nature with the sympathy it brings
    In order to work out Life’s Perfect Plan.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DAY DREAMS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
